Cloud Native Chapter 6 (#12951)
dotnet/docs: docs/architecture/cloud-native/infrastructure-resiliency-azure.md

## Built-in retry in services

We encouraged the best practice of implementing programmatic retry operations in an earlier section. Keep in mind that many Azure services and their corresponding client SDKs also include retry mechanisms. The following list summarizes retry features in the many of the Azure services that are discussed in this book:

- *Azure Cosmos DB.* The <xref:Microsoft.Azure.Documents.Client.DocumentClient> class from the client API automatically retires failed attempts. The number of retries and maximum wait time are configurable. Exceptions thrown by the client API are either requests that exceed the retry policy or non-transient errors.

- *Azure Redis Cache.* The Redis StackExchange client uses a connection manager class that includes retries on failed attempts. The number of retries, specific retry policy and wait time are all configurable.

> - *Azure Service Bus.* The Service Bus client exposes a [RetryPolicy property](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.servicebus.retrypolicy?view=azure-dotnet) that can be configured with a back-off interval, retry count, and <xref:Microsoft.ServiceBus.RetryExponential.TerminationTimeBuffer>, which specifies the maximum time an operation can take. The default policy is nine maximum retry attempts with a 30-second backoff period between attempts.

Reviewer: If that's really the API you were talking about, this is a class

```suggestion
- *Azure Service Bus.* The Service Bus client exposes a [RetryPolicy class](xref:Microsoft.ServiceBus.RetryPolicy) that can be configured with a back-off interval, retry count, and <xref:Microsoft.ServiceBus.RetryExponential.TerminationTimeBuffer>, which specifies the maximum time an operation can take. The default policy is nine maximum retry attempts with a 30-second backoff period between attempts.
```

- *Favor scale-out.* Cloud-based applications favor scaling out resources as opposed to scaling up. Scaling out, often called horizontal scaling, involves adding more service resources to an existing system in order to meet and share a desired level of performance. On the other hand, scaling up, often called vertical scaling, involves replacing existing resources with more powerful hardware (more disk, memory and processing cores). Scaling out can be invoked automatically with the auto-scaling features available in some Azure cloud resources. Scaling out across multiple resources also adds redundancy to the overall system. Finally scaling up a single resource is typically more expensive than scaling out across many     smaller resources. Figure 6-8 below shows the two approaches.

![Scale Up vs. Scale Out](media/scale-up-scale-out.png)

**Figure 6-8.** Scale Up vs. Scale Out

> - *Scale proportionally.* When scaling a service, think in terms of *resource sets*. If you were to dramatically scale out a specific service, what impact would that have on backend data stores, caches and dependent services? Some resources such as Cosmos DB can scale out proportionally, while many other    cannot. You want to ensure that you do not scale out a resource that will to a point where it will choke other associated resources.

Reviewer: will to a -> will what?

- *Avoid affinity.* A best practice is to ensure a node doesn't require local affinity, often referred to as a *sticky session*. A request should be able to route to any instance. If you do need to persist state, it should be saved to a distributed cache, such as Azure Redis cache.

> - *Take advantage of platform autoscaling features.* Use built-in autoscaling features whenever possible, rather than custom or third-party mechanisms. Use scheduled scaling rules, where possible, to ensure that resources are available without a startup delay, but add reactive autoscaling to the rules, where appropriate, to cope with unexpected changes in demand. For more information, see Autoscaling guidance.

Reviewer: missing link

> - *Scale-up aggressively.* A final practice would be to scale up aggressively so that you can quickly meet immediate spikes in traffic without losing business. And, then scale down (remove unneeded resources) conservatory in order to keep the system stable. A simple way to implement this might be to set the cool down period (the time to wait between scaling operations) for adding resources to 5 minutes and the period for removing instances up to 30 minutes.

Reviewer: conservatory -> conservatively?

### Built-in Retry in services

We encouraged the best practice of implementing programmatic retry operations in an earlier section. Keep in mind that many Azure services and their corresponding client SDKs also include retry mechanisms. Here, we summarize retry features in the many of the Azure services we have discussed in this book.

- *Azure Cosmos DB.* The DocumentClient class from the client API automatically retires failed attempts. The number of retries and maximum wait time are configurable. Exception thrown by the client API are either requests that exceed the retry policy or non-transient errors.

- *Azure Redis Cache.* The Redis StackExchange client uses a connection manager class that includes retries on failed attempts. The number of retries, specific retry policy and wait time are all configurable.

> - *Azure Service Bus.* The Service Bus client exposes a RetryPolicy property that can be configured with a back-off interval, retry count and TerminationTimeBuffer which specifies the maximum time an operation can take. The default policy is 9 maximum retry attempts with a 30 second backoff period between attempts.

Reviewer: RetryPolicy property or class (https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.servicebus.retrypolicy?view=azure-dotnet)?
